a handy little practice tool that I
thought you might find useful it's
called a metronome and it's not one of
those old-fashioned tiki-taka metronomes
but it's a digital one called the Korg
and a 30 and my students find it really
helpful because it lets them track their
progress so this particular model goes
from 40 beats per minute to 208 bees per
minute and that's more than enough tempo
variation for anymore employer but some
snare drummers that are really wanting
to push their mom and dad exercises you
can certainly get models that go faster
than that but this will suit most
drummers so I'm going to show you today
how we can use it for some jigs and
reels so if you press the red button at
the top that just turns it on you'll see
the number here 60 means 60 beats per
minute so I'm just gonna mute it there
for a minute because when you're talking
or you're not using it get really new
hang in the background so if you wanted
to change that you would just press the
unmuted you press the numbers at the
bottom here to move it up gradually or
you can hold it down and it will jump up
in increments of 20 or jump back down
with the other arrow okay so I'm gonna
bring it back down to 16 we're gonna
keep it fairly slow for this exercise
and I'm gonna show you how you can
subdivide that note into groups of three
so that beat that single beat I'm gonna
break it down into groups of three and
so if you press the top gray button and
then you use the bottom arrows earth
buttons again this number zero will
change from zero to seven once you get
to seven it will then change to notes
I'm going to go to the second grouping
of notes and I'm gonna press the top
button again and you'll hear that it's
broken down from one two one two two one
two three one two three
so we're gonna say deal with a 6/8 jig
that would go one two three four five
six meaning that there are six eighth
notes within each bar but your foot is
actually gonna tap twice it's gonna go 1
2 3 1 2 3 1 2 2 3 4 5 6 so the first
beat of each group of threes kind of
accepted so that helps you keep on track
so imagine if you're playing that at 60
1 2 3 down 2 3 up 2 3 down 2 3 up 10 3
you try that for a couple of days and
then maybe gradually creep it up to 65
70 you can see your progress in a number
and
all of a sudden you will be a 100 beats
per minute which is a good tempo I mean
120 is probably what a lot of CDs
musicians will have their CDs playing
jigsaw but 140 you might get some really
fun Irish bands for really pushing it at
140 but for the most part 100 120 might
be a kind of a realistic goal to aim for
but at first if you can't play it slow
you can't play it fast so really stick
with gaining control of it and then
gradually speed it up now the goal here
is really not to sound like a human
metronome or some kind of robotic
drumming machine the goal is just to
help you maintain a steady tempo with
that said now that is not the be-all and
end-all it's all about musicality one of
my favorite Fiddler's has this track I'm
one of my all-time favorite fiddle CDs
the end of this particular jig said the
last two bars he speeds up the last two
bars every time you know I don't care it
is so musical then I'm not gonna judge
him on it so don't be too overly
critical is it I mean the tempo is
having a steady tempo is something that
you want to have and be able to do but
it certainly doesn't win over musicality
if you want to play along to say some
reels you can then also subdivide the
note again press this button here so
until it jumps down below and press it
again if you're one two three four one
two three four one and two and three and
four and that kind of count so it's
really handy for reals anyway I hope you
find this useful and see you again